=pod

=head1 NAME

Package::Transporter::Generator::Suggested_Use - issue the right 'use MODULE' to get the missing subroutine

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use Package::Transporter sub{eval shift}, sub {
		$_[0]->register_potential('::Suggested_Use', 'FOR_SELF');
	};
	
	sub yn($) { print STDERR ($_[0] ? 'Yes' : 'No'), "\n"; };
	yn(!defined(&anything));
	yn(potentially_defined('anything')); # dangerous!
	
	print STDOUT uri_escape('Hello World.'), "\n";
	
	my $uri_base = bless(\(my $o = 'www.perl.org'), 'main');
	$uri_base->scheme('http');
	print STDOUT "URI: $$uri_base\n";
	
	confess('Bye World.');
		
	exit(0);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Issues an 'use MODULE;' or 'use parent qw(MODULE);' if a subroutine is requested from it. Example: Issues 'use URI::Escape' if the subroutine 'uri_escape' is requested. Configurable. Default values in the data section of Suggested_Use::Suggestions. * means any and '' means empty type.

Configure the generator by creating it manually and passing a manually created object of the class Package::Transporter::Generator::Suggested_Use::Suggestions to it.

=head2 Default Suggestions

TYPE is the string OBJECT for a non-empty value of blessed($_[0]) and the return value of ref($_[0]) otherwise. ARGC is the argument count.

	__DATA__
	#NAME		TYPE	ARGC	MODULE
	confess		''	*	Carp
	croak		*	*	Carp
	uri_escape	*	*	URI::Escape
	uri_unescape	*	*	URI::Escape
	each_array	*	*	List::MoreUtils
	each_arrayref	*	*	List::MoreUtils
	julian_day	*	*	Time::Piece
	soundex_noxs	*	*	Text::Soundex
	soundex_nara	*	*	Text::Soundex
	soundex_unicode	*	*	Text::Soundex
	soundex_nara_unicode	*	*	Text::Soundex
	pack_U		*	*	Unicode::Normalize
	h1		*	*	CGI
	start_html	*	*	CGI
	Dumper		*	*	Data::Dumper
	cartesian_to_spherical	*	*	Math::Trig
	ping_icmp	*	*	Net::Ping

=head1 ANYTHING ELSE

Please see the documentation of the upstream package L<Package::Transporter>.

=cut
